1 add cmake scripts (#3)
SciCompMod/memilio-simulations: README.md

# MEmilio-simulations
This Repository contains simulations using the library [MEmilio](https://github.com/SciCompMod/memilio).
In this Repo, the simulations are connected with the MEmilio version used to create the simulations. 
This way, the outputs should be easy to recreate. 

> All files used to create outputs used e.g. for paper simulations, can be included. 

Author: You can use all python functions and data from memilio. But I think this is not what I wanted to say here. Will reformulate this

The scripts do not necessarily have to be portable (e.g. some shellscripts), but they worked locally. Please be aware of tis when using the files.

## Configuring using CMake

To configure with default options (no simulations will be built):
```bash
mkdir build && cd build
cmake ..
```

You can specify which simulation folders to build by specifying options via `cmake .. -D<OPTION>=<VALUE>`.
All options can be set to ON or OFF and the default value is always OFF. Please check the README of the subdirectories for details about the simulations.
The following options can be set:
- `BUILD_2020_npis_sarscov2_wildtype_germany`
- `BUILD_2021_vaccination_sarscov2_delta_germany`
- `BUILD_munich_graph_sim`

> - `BUILD_2024_Ploetzke_Linear_Chain_Trick`.

Author: Yes still clear, I like your version

A build folder with the correct MEmilio version will be created in each subdirectory. 
You can run a simulation with e.g.:
```bash
./2020_npis_sarscov2_wildtype_germany/build/2020_npis_wildtype

> ```

Reviewer: If you are still in the build directory, this wont work. Maybe add 
```
cd .. # if you are still in the build directory
```
or just make the path start with ".." instead, or use `cmake -B build .. -D<...>` instead of `mkdir build && cd build`. I personally like the last one most, though using mkdir is more common.

Author: I chose the option to start the path with ../

Furthermore, you can specify the maximum number of concurrent processes to use when building by setting the variable `NUM_JOBS_BUILD`. Using a value higher than `1` could speed up the build process. The default of this variable is `1`. With this specification, the build process should work for every hardware and operating system. 

## Requirements
For most simulations, we require the libraries `JsonCpp` and `HDF5` for running the simulations (these are optional for the MEmilio project, see [MEmilio cpp README](https://github.com/SciCompMod/memilio/blob/main/cpp/README.md)). Please have a look at the folder READMEs for further specifications.

## Information for Developer
If you want to create a new folder, e.g. for the files for a new paper, then you should follow the steps below:

- Create a folder with a descriptive name.
- Put all related files in it. 

> - Add a `CMakeLists.txt` and define a unique project name as well as a part to download MEmilio and create your targets linking the MEmilio targets.

Reviewer: I think you can add the blocks
```
# Download MEmilio with the git tag defined in git_tag.cmake.
include(${CMAKE_SOURCE_DIR}/git_tag.cmake)
# If git tag is not set, throw error.
if(NOT DEFINED GIT_TAG_MEMILIO)
  message(FATAL_ERROR "GIT_TAG_MEMILIO is not defined. Please make sure the git_tag.cmake file is correct.")
endif()
```
And
```
include(FetchContent)

FetchContent_Declare(
  memilio
  GIT_REPOSITORY https://github.com/SciCompMod/memilio.git
  GIT_TAG ${GIT_TAG_MEMILIO}
)

FetchContent_MakeAvailable(memilio)
```
explicitly? I think we don't need to save on space here. Maybe it makes sense to define these blocks as (a) function, but that may be over-engineering it.

Author: Yeah i thought abput this but i think the current solution is ok

> - In a `git_tag.cmake`, define a git tag for the MEmilio version used (can be a commit hash or a branch name).

Reviewer: Here you can also add an example, it is not clear that you should use set()

> - In the global `CMakeLists.txt`, add an option for your new content and the commands to build your files using the local `CMakeLists.txt`. Please also add the option to the current `README.md`. 

Reviewer: The option should be named `BUILD_<FolderName>`, no?

> - Clearly state all requirements in your `README.md` (e.g. hdf5) as we cannot access the MEmilio variables MEMILIO_HAS... to control the requirements in CMake.

Reviewer: Can we not? You set MEMILIO_BUILD_TESTS just fine. But it does make sense to let memilio handle dependencies, though enforcing that they are there would be nice.

Author: Yes, MEMILIO_BUILD_TEST is ok as it is set beforehand and therefore is also used in MEmilio. But we can't access the variables defined in MEmilio (if we want to, we have to use "PARENT_SCOPE" while setting the variable in MEmilio)

Reviewer: Right, we can set, but not get. I was wondering whether we should use `find_package(HDF5 Required)` or similar in the CMakeLists.txt here, so that it errors correctly. At least I think that, if HDF5 is not available, then memilio just does not add the simulation targets, and the error would be something like "no such target", right?

Alternatively, we can also just mention this behaviour (if it behaves like I assume, have not tested it) in the main Readme.

Author: I think we shouldnt change memilio. Much of the functionality in memilio does not require hdf5. 
That is why i thought stating the requirements clearly in the readme is enough. I can try your solution with find_package.

Reviewer: It should be, but getting people to read the Readme can be tough. Maybe add a "If the build fails, you may be missing requirements/dependencies" to the end of either the Configuration or Requirements section. That should be enough.

# MEmilio-simulations
This Repository contains simulations using the library [MEmilio](https://github.com/SciCompMod/memilio).
The simulations are connected with the MEmilio version used to create the simulations. 
This way, simulation outputs should be easy to recreate. 
Developer can upload all related scripts, so e.g. plotscripts etc. are additionally provided. 

> The scripts do not necessarily have to be portable (e.g. some shellscripts), but they worked locally. Please be aware of this when using the files.

Author: Hm i think your solution is enough

The following `<OPTION>`s can be set:
- `BUILD_2020_npis_sarscov2_wildtype_germany`
- `BUILD_2021_vaccination_sarscov2_delta_germany`
- `BUILD_munich_graph_sim`
- `BUILD_2024_Ploetzke_Linear_Chain_Trick`.

If you do not set an option, no simulation will be built. After a simulation has been built, you can prevent cmake from rebuilding it by setting `cmake .. -D<OPTION>=OFF`, although rebuilding should only take a few seconds. You can also set multiple options at once by adding more pairs ` -D<OPTION>=<VALUE>` to the end, with `<VALUE>` being either `ON` or `OFF`.

A build folder with the correct MEmilio version will be created in each subdirectory. 
You can run a simulation with e.g.:
```bash
../2020_npis_sarscov2_wildtype_germany/build/bin/2020_npis_wildtype
```
Furthermore, you can specify the maximum number of concurrent processes to use when building by setting the variable `NUM_JOBS_BUILD`. Using a value higher than `1` could speed up the build process. The default of this variable is `1`. With this specification, the build process should work for every hardware and operating system. 

## Requirements

> For most simulations, we require the libraries `JsonCpp` and `HDF5` for running the simulations (these are optional for the MEmilio project, see [MEmilio cpp README](https://github.com/SciCompMod/memilio/blob/main/cpp/README.md)). Please have a look at the folder READMEs for further specifications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For most simulations, we require the libraries `JsonCpp` and `HDF5` for running the simulations (these are optional for the MEmilio project, see [MEmilio cpp README](https://github.com/SciCompMod/memilio/blob/main/cpp/README.md)). Please have a look at the README in a specific folder for further specifications.
```

> ## Information for Developer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Information for Developers
```

```bash
set(GIT_TAG_MEMILIO <commit_hash>)
```
- Add a `CMakeLists.txt` and define a unique project name. Additionally add the code block 

```bash
# Executables should be stored in the build/bin/ folder.
set(CMAKE_RUNTIME_OUTPUT_DIRECTORY "${CMAKE_BINARY_DIR}/bin")
```

for the stated reason. 
We need a code block to download MEmilio with the version defined in `git_tag.cmake`:

```bash
# Download MEmilio with the git tag defined in git_tag.cmake.
include(${CMAKE_SOURCE_DIR}/git_tag.cmake)
# If git tag is not set, throw error.
if(NOT DEFINED GIT_TAG_MEMILIO)
    message(FATAL_ERROR "GIT_TAG_MEMILIO is not defined. Please make sure the git_tag.cmake file is correct.")
endif()

# FetchContent to fetch the MEmilio library in the correct version.
include(FetchContent)
    
FetchContent_Declare(
memilio
GIT_REPOSITORY https://github.com/SciCompMod/memilio.git
GIT_TAG ${GIT_TAG_MEMILIO}
)

FetchContent_MakeAvailable(memilio)

# Disable some options for the build.
set(MEMILIO_BUILD_TESTS OFF)
set(MEMILIO_BUILD_EXAMPLES OFF)
set(MEMILIO_BUILD_SIMULATIONS OFF)

# Add the subdirectory for MEmilio build.
add_subdirectory(${memilio_SOURCE_DIR}/cpp ${memilio_BINARY_DIR})
```

>  as well as a part create your targets linking the MEmilio targets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, create a compilation target for the simulation, and link all required libraries, like memilio or the model libraries used by the simulation.
```

Each simulation is in a separate folder, containing the version of MEmilio used to create the simulations. 
This way, simulation results should be easy to recreate.

## Disclaimer
Additional scripts used for the creation of published simulation results may be provided in each folder, for example for plotting, gathering data or pre-/post-processing. These scripts are provided as a reference, without any guarantee that they will work correctly outside of the environment they were written in. Do not use them without prior inspection.

> In addition, some scripts depend on external data sources. Related files are maintained in the main branch of the MEmilio repository, but it is not guaranteed that the scripts will work in the version fetched for the specific simulation. For example, links to data sources may be updated in MEmilio if an old link has expired, but cannot be adapted in the version used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition, some scripts, like the memilio-epidata tools in the pycode folder of MEmilio, depend on external data sources. Expired links will be updated or replaced in the main branch of the MEmilio repository, but these updates are not brought to the specific versions of MEmilio used by the simulations here. You may try to use links or scripts from the [current version of MEmilio](https://github.com/SciCompMod/memilio), but be aware that they may be incompatible due to structural changes in the data sources or code.
```
So I only wanted to add a "here" at the end of this paragraph, but somehow kept on editing.

Author: I really like your suggestion, thank you!
